# Neuromatch

## Project Abstract

Phenomenological observation of reward processing suggests that humans value rewards in a relative manner: rewards are often not only valued according to their magnitude but also relative to other rewards. Previous work has demonstrated the importance of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in “relative reward processing”, but macro-level analysis of the most active cortical regions in this process is still lacking. . Here, we use fMRI data from a gambling task to test whether certain regions of the reward processing circuit respond preferentially to a reward stimulus after a streak of bad luck (representing low-value rewards in the temporal vicinity) compared to the same stimulus after a streak of good luck (high-value rewards in the temporal vicinity). The data was collected during a gambling task, in which subjects were asked to guess whether the value of a hidden card was larger or smaller than 5. Correct and incorrect guesses would respectively lead to the gain and loss of a set amount of money. We use a generalized linear model (GLM) to compare how low-value (a win after a streak of good luck) and high-value (a win after a streak of bad luck) relative rewards predict activity for each separate cortical region. We expect to find increased activity in the cortical elements of the reward processing network upon receiving a high-value relative reward compared to a low-value relative reward. These regions potentially include the medial prefrontal, orbitofrontal, and anterior cingulate cortex. From these expected findings, we might conclude that the brain processes reward in at least a partially relative manner. Future research should utilize data from a hypothesis-specific task to explore the contributions of subcortical components to relative reward processing and disentangle relative reward from confounding factors such as prediction error processing activity.
